There
were five states that they were the regional
veterinary school for. I think it was five,
Mississippi, Alabama, actually Mississippi,
Tennessee, Kentucky, and Florida.
Particularly. Thank you.
We had a strange class. They were older. Nearly all
of them had been in World War II. They had been in
military service. All of them except one were 4F
people that couldn't qualify.
That's all, the locker room conversation and
everything was where they were going to go to
practice and how much money they were going to
make. This is at Iowa State. What about the Aggies
here, their work habits, their
liberal or conservative attitudes, their
background? Even at first class, that first class
that I taught in 1960, full class I taught in 1966,
Probably there's at least 20 or 25 out of that class
that have made tremendous
marks in veterinary medicine. And there were at
least a half a dozen or more in the class that
graduated in August of 1965 who did equally as
well. There are really some great students in
there. The problem they had then was exercising
it. They got out just at the right time when
veterinary medicine began to blossom into the
great science that it is. Instead of being animal
treaters, they became scientists. And many of
them have really made tremendous achievements in
it. Dewey Kramer. for example, here at Texas A&M,
was in the first class I taught in 1966. He got his
PhD in December of 1965 and his Doctor of
Veterinary Medicine in August of 66. And he is, of
course, he was the first one to do an embryo
transplant at the research station in San
Antonio. And several others in that class, Gerald
Bratton, Dean Gage, James Anderson. It just goes
on and on and on. Men who really made tremendous
marks in the veterinary profession.
It's
just gotten better every year. In 1972,
The American Veterinary Medical Association
employed an outfit in Chicago to do a study on the
profession of veterinary medicine. And they paid
them a rather tidy sum for doing it. And they came up
with the dramatic and marvelous conclusion that
by 1985, we would be super-saturated with
veterinarians. And this really had a telling
impact on, particularly on those schools who were
pumping legislators for money. They got this
little report that says you're going to have too
many of them in 1985, as it is. Well, it turned out
they were 100% wrong. And I said at the time, I don't
understand your thinking when here are a group of
graduates who represent the upper probably 10% of
the academic community as far as academic ability
is concerned. And you're telling me that these
people are going to remain unemployed while
people of lesser quality are going to be employed?
Let's kid ourselves. And they've proven it by
branching out into so many different directions
in the medical profession and are able to hold
their own and have held their own. In some of the
early days of DeBakey's transplant work in
Houston, a guy named, I can't think of his last
name, he's still on the faculty at Tufts, did all
the work. He was an Ohio State graduate that So
they've really made such a tremendous
contribution and we're still struggling because
the pharmaceutical profession or the
pharmaceutical industry and the medical
profession too can't afford yet the studies that
need to be done on the so-called exotic animals.
The money isn't there. And yet in these animals are
things that we really need to know and would like to
know if we could get the funds and the research
facilities to study them. The San Diego Zoo has
done a lot, but they haven't had the opportunity to
do it near enough. Before you got here, what had you
heard about Aggies and Texas A&M? Based on what you
had heard, what were you anticipating?
The only preface I had to coming here was two weeks
at a poultry inspection school in Kansas City,
Missouri, in January of 1958. There were two
Aggies. that were there that day. And I learned a
great deal about the people they didn't like in the
veterinary faculty here, and little else. And the
only thing else I knew about Texas A&M when I came
here in the summer of 65 was,
I can't think of his last name, the high jumper that
got the bronze medal in 52. And
Randy Mattson and John Kimbrough. The disaster in
the Texas game in 63, which I was watching on
television that day. But other than that, I
didn't... Had you heard about Aggie tradition?
No, no, I knew nothing of it, absolutely nothing.
What academic reputation did you think A&M had
before you
got here? I had very, very limited contact with
that. We had a man came on our faculty at Iowa State
in the fall of 1948. named William Schweitzer, who
graduated here in the spring of 48. He was a
classmate of George Shelton's. He came up to the
diagnostics laboratory, and he stayed the rest of
his career. He just retired. When did he retire,
Kim? About a year ago, two years ago? Stayed the
rest of his career there. And I don't know. Any
other man from Texas that came up there, and Bill
Monlux, who was an Iowa State graduate, who was the
one who sent me down here, came there after I
graduated. And his brother, Andrew Monlux, was on
the microbiology faculty when I was a student. And
he eventually became the head of the Department of
Pathology at Oklahoma A&M. But they were Iowans.
They were born and raised in Algona, Iowa. But
Monlux taught here for several years after World
War II. describe getting settled into the
community and how you and your family became a part
of the community?
Where did you find a place to live? We bought a house
that just had been finished on Glade Street. There
were three houses in a row over there. And this was
the last one that was empty. And it was a four
bedroom house and with four children. That's what
we needed. It was open and available. And to avoid
moving twice or more, we took it. Paid $20,000 for
it. And I lived there until 1982.
As far as getting into the community is concerned,
it was just easy. Children in school?
Yes. Susan was a freshman in high school. She was in
a band and played in athletics. Sarah was in second
grade. Yeah, it was in second grade. The other two
hadn't started school yet. In the two that were in
school, did you have the impression that the local
school system was better than or equal to or less
than what you had experienced elsewhere? It was
better than what we had at Auburn, much. What about
shopping?
The only place you went to shop was Townshire. That
was it. You didn't shop in College Station for
anything. But we didn't go out of town to shop
either. We never went out of town. Anything we
needed we got either at Sears or
I can't remember all the different places in
Townshire. And downtown Bryan, we did a lot of
shopping in downtown Bryan. That's where we did
most of it. Did you join a church? Yes, we went to
church at the Methodist Church. We moved in here on
a Wednesday, I think it was that we went to church on
Sunday, and we've been going there ever since. A&M
Methodist. A&M Methodist. In fact, there are only
probably three or four people going to church
there now that have been there as long as I have. Ed
Holdridge was there, and Fred Benson's wife, and
E.J. Dykstra Heiss's wife, and that's about it.
This is not part of the interview. Is Mrs. Benson
still living? Oh, yes. We see her every Sunday. Is
she still living? I would say she's taking a real
like to Kim. Kim makes a point of seeing her. Would
she be in? Oh, yes. And she'd be thrilled to death.
She's a delightful lady. She's a lovely lady.
that church in those days. I'm sure parking wasn't
a problem. I
don't know. We just had one service.
But two years after I got here, they got into a bit of
a ministerial struggle. And that
went on until 1970. Then in 1971,
James Branagh
It has really . church
that it served the campus? That was its intent.
But then the other churches in the area were there
too. The A&M Presbyterian was A&M but the Lutheran
church they didn't use the same proximity. In
terms of Who they were? No, no. Just about
everybody in the congregation was associated
with the university. Most business people in the
community went to Bryan. They were members of
First Methodist Church.
The only time I've ever been to a midnight yell
practice was at a bowl game somewhere, and I can't
remember where. Oh, it was in Memphis. First time
we played at the Liberty Bowl in Memphis. That's
the only midnight yell practice I've ever been to.
Have you been to the Silver Taps? No, I haven't. She
has, but I haven't. That first fall, you must have
gone to a football game. Yes, went to every one of
them. What was the impression of an Aggie football
game in those first years? Of course, the fall of 65
was a tough fall. But I enjoyed the games. I thought
that Gene Stallings really got everything he had
out of those guys. And of course, the game with
Texas Thanksgiving Day in 65 was probably...
Maybe as exciting a game as we've ever had in the
series, really. That was the day of the famous
lateral pass and the long pass to McLean. And they
were down 17 to nothing at the half, and then came
back and beat us 21 to 17 in the second half. But it
was fun. And then, of course, basketball. 1966 was
extremely exciting. John Beasley and Mattson,
they made the games fun. Probably of all the
basketball games that I've seen here, the game
with Houston that fall When they had Chaney and,
oh, the big guy who played for years in the pros, was
a center. He was a sophomore that year. I can't
think of his name now. But A&M, I think, beat them 96
to 93 or something like that. And that was just
really exciting as any basketball game you could
ever see. Now, when did you get involved outside of
the department in some of the campus activities?
I'll call them. Well,
I'm trying to remember which came first.
Probably in the summer of 1968, Buck Wirus asked me
to go to beaumont and speak to the beaumont a m club
how did how did he know to call you well of course
buck went to method church and uh i
don't know i don't really know how that how the
tie-in came but anyway i
and i remember buck telling me on the way down he
says no I don't care what you say or how you say it,
but... And it'll go. And I did. And about that same
time was when I got involved in commencement. In
the summer of 1968...
Thank you.
What's
up?
How many hours of preparation a spring
commencement might have taken?
Upwards of fifty at least. Did you literally say
them out loud somewhere, practice them? I read
them silently. I never did them out loud. I read
them silently. But when we'd be on the stage at the
commencement exercises, I would go through the
list at least twice before I got up to read. Any
horror stories of losing the list?